{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When considering ontologies that are based on description logic, the concepts that are identified are dependent on their type, denoted $\\varepsilon$, and is considered one of the following:}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{equation\}\\label\{eq:concept-type\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\varepsilon \\; ::= \\; \\token\{C\} \\; | \\; \\token\{R\} \\; | \\; \\token\{P\} \\; | \\; \\token\{T\} \\; | \\; \\token\{\\iota\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{equation\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 where:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * \\token\{C\} denotes the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Class}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  concept type, the interpretation of which results in a set $\\concept\{C\} \\subseteq \\concept\{D\}$ of individuals: $\\forall \\token\{c\} \\lhd \\token\{C\}: \\intn(\\token\{c\}) \\subseteq \\concept\{C\}$, where $\\lhd$ denotes the type-of relation between an individual concept (left-hand side, here a particular class) and its type $\\varepsilon$ (right-hand side, here a Class type);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * \\token\{R\}, \\token\{P\}, \\token\{T\} and \\token\{\\iota\} denote the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Relation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  concept type, the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Property}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  concept type, the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 value type}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  concept type, and the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Instance}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  concept type, respectively, with their own interpretation in \\concept\{D\}. For reasons of space and simplicity we do not further elaborate on these concepts.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The above concepts all represent atomic concepts, and are part of correspondence $\\mu = \\langle e, e\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92, \\theta \\rangle$ as formulated by \\ref\{eq:correspondence\}. The patterns that emerge for each homogeneous and atomic correspondence are depicted in \\cref\{fig:basic-correspondence\} (b) to (f). }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![Atomic homogeneous correspondences, i.e., two ontologies, $\\ont\{O\}$ and $\\ont\{O\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92\}$, each containing only one atomic concept $e \\in \\\{c, r, p, \\iota, t\\\}$, with correspondence relation $\\theta \\in \\Theta$ that specify how transcribendum $e$ corresponds with its peer transcriptum $e\u8217\'92$. Note that $\\theta$ is a directed relation. Correspondence (a) represents the generic atomic correspondence for classes, types and individuals, depicted by correspondences (d), (e) and (f), respectively. orrespondences (b) and (c) represent the generic atomic correspondences for object relations and property relations, respectively.][def:BasicCorrespondence]}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\Cref\{fig:basic-correspondence\} represent all potential atomic correspondence: two ontologies, $\\ont\{O\}$ and $\\ont\{O\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92\}$, each containing only one atomic concept $e$, with $e \\in \\\{c, r, p, \\iota, t\\\}$, and one correspondence relation $\\theta \\in \\Theta$ to relate transcribendum $e$ with its peer transcriptum $e\u8217\'92$. In correspondence (a), however, concept $e$ can only be one of $c$, $\\iota$ or $t$: when considering concepts that express relations, i.e., correspondence (b) on object relations and correspondence (c) on property relations, a class concept $c$ becomes a necessary part of the pattern to represent the domain of the relations; similarly, range concepts are necessarily included to the patterns as well. Furthermore, by including these secondary (domain and range) concepts, secondary correspondence relations are necessary to include in the atomic correspondence as well in order to clarify how the secondary concepts of the source $\\ont\{O\}$ relate with those of the target ontology $\\ont\{O\u8217\'92\}$. When one considers these secondary correspondence relations, i.e., $\\theta_c$ and $\\theta_t$ from correspondences (b) and (c) it becomes clear that these are, in fact, atomic correspondences. From this it follows that:}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. indeed correspondence (a) represents the generic atomic correspondence but only for classes, $\\tuple\{ c, c\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92, \\theta_c\}$ as depicted in correspondence (d), types, $\\tuple\{t, t\u8217\'92, \\theta_t\}$ as depicted in correspondence (e), and individuals, $\\tuple\{\\iota, c\u8217\'92, \\theta_\\iota\}$ as depicted in correspondence (f);}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. correspondences (b) and (c) represent the generic atomic correspondences for relations, since apart from the primary atomic correspondence also two secondary atomic correspondences are involved, i.e., three atomic correspondences in total;}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. the generic atomic correspondence of a relation can only be addressed once the transcriptions for the atomic correspondences (d) and (e) are resolved. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In this paper, we only investigate the mediation for correspondence (d). To that end, we introduce the local contexts of the transcriptum and transcribendum in their particular ontologies $\\ont\{O\}$ and $\\ont\{O\}\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$. Together, we denote this as the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 transcription context}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  $\\ctx$ that we define inductively as follows:}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{equation\}\\label\{eq:transcription-context\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\ctx_n = \\pair\{r, \\theta_n, r', \\ctx_\{n-1\}\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{equation\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 where:}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * $r, r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\set\{\\sqsubset, =, \\sqsupset, \\overlete, \\overlinc, \\displete, \\disjoinc\}$, representing a logical relationship between an intra-ontological class pair, with:}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * $r$ and $r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ part of $\\ont\{O\}$ and $\\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$, respectively;}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * $\\sqsubset, =, \\sqsupset$ denote }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 subsumption of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 semantic equivalence}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 subsumes}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * $\\displete, \\disjoinc$ denote }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 disjoint and complete}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 disjoint and incomplete}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , whereas }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * $\\overlete, \\overlinc$ denote }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 not disjoint but complete}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 not disjoint and incomplete}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , respectively;}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * $\\theta_n \\in \\Theta$, the correspondence relation that is assumed to hold between classes $c_n \\in \\ont\{O\}$ and $c_n\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$;}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * $\\ctx_\{n-1\} = \\pair\{r, \\theta_\{n-1\}, r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92, \\ctx_\{n-2\}\}$, viz. the transcription context at the previous induction level. }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We can depict the inductive transcription context as follows. We first consider the ontological relationships $r, r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\set\{\\sqsubset, =, \\sqsupset\}$. The context $\\ctx_n$ then is fully described by the concepts $c_n, c_\{n-1\} \\in \\ont\{O\}$ and $c_n\u8217\'92, c_\{n-1\}\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\u8217\'92\}$ and their intra-ontological relationships $r, r\u8217\'92$, the inter-ontological correspondence relation $\\theta_n$ and the transcription context $\\ctx_\{n-1\}$. This model has been depicted in \\cref\{fig:gen-class-transc-models\}(a). }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 On considering $\\set\{\\overlete, \\overlinc, \\displete, \\disjoinc\}$, the completeness aspect of the relations demands a subsuming class concept that can act as reference for (in)completeness. This model has been depicted in \\cref\{fig:gen-class-transc-models\}(b), where $r, r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\set\{\\sqsubset, =, \\sqsupset\}$ relate the reference concept $c_n$, resp. $c_n\u8217\'92$, with subclasses $c_\{n-1\}$ and $\\hat\{c\}_\{n-1\}$, resp. $c_\{n-1\}\u8217\'92$ and $\\hat\{c\}_\{n-1\}\u8217\'92$ that bear an (in)completeness relation $\\hat\{r\} \\text\{ resp. \} \\hat\{r\}\u8217\'92 \\in \\set\{\\overlete, \\overlinc, \\displete, \\disjoinc\}$. }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![The class transcription models that support all seven ontological relations. $\\theta_n$ denotes the correspondence relation that applies for the current context $\\ctx_n = \\pair\{\\hat\{r\}, \\theta_n, \\hat\{r\}', \\ctx_\{n-1\}\}$, and $\\longmapsto$ denotes the valid transcription under context $\\ctx_\{n-1\}$. Classes $c_n$ and $c_n'$ are implied by class relations $c_\{n-1\} \\hat\{r\} \\hat\{c\}_\{n-1\}$ and $c_\{n-1\}' \\hat\{r\}' \\hat\{c\}_\{n-1\}'$, respectively.][def:GenClassTranscModels]}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In the remainder of this paper we will refer to a specific context as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 case. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Clearly, situation \\ref\{fig:gen-class-transc-models\}(a) is a special case of situation \\ref\{fig:gen-class-transc-models\}(b) since (b) morphs into (a) for $\\hat\{r\} = \\text\{ \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93$=$\u8221\'94\}$. As a result, case (b) represents the generic, inductive transcription context with which we can describe each and every correspondence in every context that might apply. How this can be used to produce transcriptions that are valid and, therefore, do not produce phantom semantics, is presented in the next Section. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- Page definitions -->}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:GenClassTranscModels]: src\\images\\GenClassTranscModels.png \{#fig:gen-class-transc-models width=80%\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:BasicCorrespondence]: src\\images\\BasicCorrespondence.png \{#fig:basic-correspondence width=100%\}}}