{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The main demand for the mediation is to guarantee that it either produces a semantic valid transcription, or produces nothing, viz.$\\token\{null\}$ or $\\ntsa$, when phantom semantics are induced. We formulate a generic transcription and a valid transcription as follows.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{mmdef\}[Naive transcription]\\label\{def:naive-transcription\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Consider a function $T_\{\\ctx\} : \\ont\{O\} \\to \\ont\{O\}\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ that is primarily specified by the correspondence $\\mu = \\tuple\{ e, e\u8217\'92, \\theta \}$ between transcribendum $e \\in \\ont\{O\}$ and transcriptum $e\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$. We denote $T_\{\\ctx\}(e)$ the \\emph\{transcription result\} of concept $e$ under context $\\ctx$. }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A transcription is called \\emph\{naive\} when it produces the transcriptum from the subject correspondence without taking the transcription context $\\ctx$, defined by \\cref\{eq:transcription-context\}, into account, i.e., $\\forall \\ctx \\in X: T_\{\\ctx\}(e) = e\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$.   }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{mmdef\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{mmdef\}[Valid transcription (under transcription context $\\ctx$)]\\label\{def:valid-transcription\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Consider a transcription function $T_\{\\ctx\} : \\ont\{O\} \\to \\ont\{O\}\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ with correspondence $\\mu_n = \\tuple\{ e_n, e_n\u8217\'92, \\theta_n \}$. Such transcription is called \\emph\{valid under transcription context\} $\\ctx$, or simply \\emph\{valid\}, denoted $\\vldtranscript\{\\ctx\}$ iff:\\[}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\intn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92(T_\{\\ctx_n\}(e_n)) \\supseteq \\intn(e_n)}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\]}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 where transcribendum $e_n \\in \\ont\{O\}$, transcription context $\\ctx_n = \\pair\{r, \\theta_n, r', \\ctx_\{n-1\}\}$ including a semantic valid transcription at the lower inductive level for $e_\{n-1\}\\vldtranscript\{\\ctx_\{n-1\}\}$, and $\\intn(\\cdot): \\ont\{O\} \\to \\concept\{D\}$ and $\\intn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92(\\cdot): \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92 \\to \\concept\{D\}\u8217\'92$ are interpretation functions. For a valid transcription $\\vldtranscript\{\\ctx\}$, it holds that $\\vldtranscript\{\\ctx\} \\subset T_\{\\ctx\}$. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{mmdef\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The above definitions assume the following two constraints are met:}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Firstly, the correspondence $\\mu_n = \\tuple\{ e_n, e_n\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92, \\theta_n \}$ is prescribed and assumed to represent a semantic valid correspondence, that is, $e_n \\theta_n e_n\u8217\'92$ holds;}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Secondly, since the transcription result $T_\{\\ctx_n\}(e_n)$ represents a new theory, it is added to $\\ont\{O\}\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$. The validity of the transcription holds from the moment that this new theory and its logical consequences have been inferred, and not sooner.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Indeed, the best transcription would be one for which $\\intn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92(T_\{\\ctx_n\}(e_n)) \\, = \\, \\intn(e_n)$ holds. However, since we are more concerned with preventing the emergence of phantom semantics, we demand the former weaker constraint. Since it now can be guaranteed that transcription $T_\{\\ctx\}$ is valid, the transcribendum $e \\in \\ont\{O\}$ can be replaced by concept $T_\{\\ctx\}(e) \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$ without inducing phantom semantics. If $T_\{\\ctx\}(e) = r\u8217\'92$ is valid, we denote $\\pair\{e, r\u8217\'92\} \\in \\vldtranscript\{\\ctx\}$ or $e \\vldtranscript\{\\ctx\} r\u8217\'92$. When the transcription context is reduced to $\\ctx_0$, i.e., the correspondence relation $\\theta$ only, we write $T_\{(\\theta)\}$ and $\\vldtranscript\{(\\theta)\}$. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Since the transcription context provides for all potential logical circumstances that can occur, we can resolve the question whether or not a transcription is valid generically and independently from the particular ontologies and alignments that are applied by the software agents. The question at hand then becomes how to establish $T_\{\\ctx_n\}(e_n)$? Clearly, the transcription result can be represented inductively as a logical combination of $e_n\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ and $e_\{n-1\}\u8217\'92$, or of $e_n\u8217\'92$, $e_\{n-1\}\u8217\'92$ and $e\u8217\'92$ for all cases that are addressed by \\cref\{fig:gen-class-transc-models\}(a), resp. (b). Our task is then to traverse the 4-dimensional space that is spanned by the transcription context, and for each point in that space consider when $\\intn\u8217\'92(T_\{\\ctx_n\}(e_n)) \\supseteq \\intn(e_n)$ holds, viz. which logical combination of $e_n\u8217\'92$, $e_\{n-1\}\u8217\'92$ and $e\u8217\'92$ implies the smallest set that includes $\\intn(e_n)$. We first consider transcriptions for atomic correspondences, and in the subsequent subsections we extend it to cover several example cases of the full transcription context.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ----}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Noot: \\cref\{def:valid-transcription\} klopt intuitief maar is feitelijk onjuist, omdat $\\intn: \\ont\{O\} \\to \\concept\{D\}$ en $\\intn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92: \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92 \\to \\concept\{D\}\u8217\'92$ en derhalve niet hetzelfde co-domain hebben, en daardoor de subset relatie niet bepaald kan worden. Het is juist de bedoeling dat de alignment $e_n \\theta_n e_n\u8217\'92$ het verschil in conceptualisaties overbrugt; dat neem ik ook als uitgangspunt. Want: Het maken van een alignment is niet mogelijk zonder een extern orakel die beide afzonderlijke conceptualisaties tot elkaar weet te verhouden. Dat orakel, de mens, is wat ik in \\cref\{def:valid-transcription\} als gezamenlijk co-domain impliceer, op basis waarvan de subset relatie wordt bepaald. Maar ja, hoe schrijf je dat op, mathematisch; door de semiotische \u8220\'93abstractie\u8221\'94 relatie met de werkelijkheid te leggen? Maar leg je dan eigenlijk niet heel exact vast dat je te weinig expliciet kan maken om vast te stellen wanneer de transcriptie semantisch valide is?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Hoe dan ook, het is niet noodzakelijk voor de rest van het verhaal om \\cref\{def:valid-transcription\} sluitend te krijgen, gelukkig; het overbrengen van de intuitie van wat ik als valide semantiek bedoel, volstaat. }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }}