{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Assume two collaborating software agents, exchanging data about their common interest. Each agent addresses a part of reality, here denoted the agent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 application domain}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Collaboration implies that the agents\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 application domains overlap. In terms of formal semantics, an application domain is abstracted into a conceptualisation as a set-based }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Domain of Interpretation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (DoI), denoted \\concept\{D\}. Furthermore, a conceptualisation is represented in tokens which, together, form an ontology, denoted \\ont\{O\}. Finally, an interpretation function $\\intn$ exists from the ontology to the conceptualisation. We assume that each agent decides on its own conceptualisation and its own ontological representation, the latter being built from a unique alphabet $\\Sigma$. }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6E2278F2-BBD1-4FF3-A4E2-4F68C003722E"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For example, consider ...}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Since each agent decides on its own conceptualisation, two DoI\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s with two unique ontologies emerge: $\\intn: \\ont\{O\} \\to \\concept\{D\}$, and $\\intn\u8217\'92: \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92 \\to \\concept\{D\}\u8217\'92$, where $\\Sigma_\{\\ont\{O\}\} \\cap \\Sigma_\{\\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92\} = \\varnothing$^[Even worse, it can be the case that both ontologies share identical tokens which refer to different concepts in each conceptualisation. It is easy to see how identical tokens can still become unique, hence we take the unique name assumption to apply for the rest of the paper.] whereas, since the DoI\u8217\'92s overlap, $\\concept\{D\} \\cap \\concept\{D\}\u8217\'92 \\neq \\varnothing$. We assume the existence of (inter-ontological) alignment correspondences that hold between source and target ontological concepts, such as subsumption, disjointness or overlap. We make no assumptions on how the alignment correspondences are established but we do assume their semantic validity. Besides data exchange, collaboration thus demands for data transcription between both ontologies. Now consider that a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 transcription}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  essentially implements a replacement of term $e \\in \\ont\{O\}$ to $e\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$. From a semantic perspective, however, term replacement enforces an equivalence to hold between both terms, which is in clear contrast with the prescribed correspondence relations (except for an equivalence correspondence). Consequently, the result of the transcription will induce a difference between how it is actually being interpreted by the target agent and how it was intended to be interpreted according to its correspondence relation. Clearly, this difference might very well result in invalid semantics, with dramatic consequences for the agents\u8217\'92 collaboration. With invalid semantics we refer to a valuation of a theory that contradicts the state of affairs in the domain of interest. Invalid semantics that are induced by the transcription will be denoted as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 phantom semantics}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Due to the open world assumption this includes unfaithful valuations that remain open because conclusive data (or data that sources their entailment) have vaporised by the transcription, and vice versa, those that became closed because definitive data (or source data for their derivation) have transpired. In short, phantom semantics are semantics that are transcription-induced and contradict the state of affairs in the domain of interest. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Our first objective towards }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 semantic interoperability}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (sIOP) is to facilitate for any pair of collaborating agents a generic semantic mediation: a syntactic replacement between theories from two distinct alphabets, which does not induce phantom semantics, despite the difference between the stated correspondence relation and the actual transcription. Our second objective is to provide for an implementation of such generic semantic mediation, which is always terminating, and remains independent of the order with which the terms are replaced.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The main idea of the paper is to identify, for (i) all logical contexts that originate from the source and target ontological concepts, (ii) including their (intra-ontological) relations, and (iii) all (inter-ontological) alignment correspondences that are possible between source and target ontological concepts, }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 the most accurate valid transcription possible}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or an indication that none is available. We call aspects (i)-(iii) the transcription contexts, and these are introduced as constraints for an abstract rewriting system, resulting in a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 conditional term rewriting system}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (cTRS) as the core engine for a generic semantic mediator. Our contributions to the semantic mediation process are then:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. An }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 inductive model}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of the transcription context, describing any logical context that might occur between collaborating agents, in terms of classes, relationships and correspondences (\\cref\{an-inductive-transcription-model\});}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. A set of }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 valid transcriptions}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  for each transcription context that has been investigated and resolved. Due to space limitations we only present a few examples here -- the full set of valid transcriptions are available at [some web address | a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93data\u8221\'94 set] (\\cref\{valid-transcriptions\});}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. A }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 mathematical specification of a mediator}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , founded on a conditional term rewriting system (\\cref\{a-ctrs-as-mediator\});}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. An investigation into the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 confluence property}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of the inductive model, to assure that the mediator is properly terminating and its transcription results are independent of the order in which the terms are transcribed (\\cref\{the-confluence-property-of-the-mediator\});}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. (}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://74050CC8-0B79-4814-9DA2-2010E3F06727"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Finally}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 evaluation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of the mediator by providing an implementation that is based on a generic rewriting logic framework, the Maude 2.0 System [@Clavel2003a], (\\cref\{validation\})). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Before turning to the first of these sections, we introduce some terminology, as follows.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 correspondence}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  denotes a single particular inter-ontological relation, prescribed, and assumed to represent a semantically valid relation between both concepts. The correspondence is denoted as}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{equation\}\\label\{eq:correspondence\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\mu = \\tuple\{ e, e\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92, \\theta \}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{equation\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 with $\\theta \\in \\Theta$ specifying the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 correspondence relation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that holds between source concept $e \\in \\ont\{O\}$, denoted the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 transcribendum}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and the target concept $e\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$, denoted the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 transcriptum}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The correspondence relations $\\Theta$ that we consider are:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{equation*\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\Theta = \\\{=, \\sqsubset, \\sqsupset, \\disj, \\overlap \\\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{equation*\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 denoting $=$: semantic equality, $\\sqsubset$: subsumption of, $\\sqsupset$: subsumes, $\\disj$: disjointness, and $\\overlap$: overlap. Despite the fact that we have limited ourselves to these particular relations, the method that we propose copes with other correspondence relations as well. }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 concepts}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  in the ontologies are the elements that apply in the ontology. These are of certain type, dependent on the type of logic that is used to formulate the ontology. Although we limit ourselves to description logic, and, for sake of simplicity and available space, to only the classes therein, the principles that we present here are applicable to the other types of elements in description logic, i.e., relations, properties and instances, as well as other types of logic.   }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We denote as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 atomic correspondence }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a correspondence where $e$ and $e\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ are atomic concepts, i.e., a single concept without considering any (logical or ontological) relation with another concept from its own ontology. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A correspondence is }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 homogeneous}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  when it relates concepts that are of the same type, whereas correspondences between concepts of different types are denoted as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 heterogeneous}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . We assume homogeneous correspondences only, and we similarly assume ontologies that are based on the same logic.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Finally, some notation to distinguish various forms of equivalences:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{align*\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\equiv \\;  &\\text\{: denotes \\emph\{syntactical identity\}\} \\\\}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   = \\;       &\\text\{: denotes \\emph\{semantic equality\} that is (to be) established\} \\\\}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\approx \\; &\\text\{: a semantic equality that holds \\emph\{a priori\}, called a ($\\Sigma$-)\\emph\{identity\}\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{align*\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}