{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When considering food, whether it is categorised as fruit or vegetable depends on assuming a botanical or culinary perspective. The botanical }{\f0\fs24 classification is based on the structure and function of the part of the plant in question, whereas the culinary classification takes flavour and structure as its primary characteristics for classification. As a result tomatoes, cucumber and green beans are considered vegetables by a cook whilst these are considered fruits according to botanical discipline. Assume }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 two ontologies B(otany) and C(ulinary), each specifying the semantics ascribed to their particular data as depicted in \\cref\{fig:alignment-a\}}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0    }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![Two ontologies, a culinary ($\\ont\{O\}_c$) and botanic ($\\ont\{O\}_b$) one, defining a vegetarian $i$ngredients concept that subsumes, amongst others, $v$egetables, and a $p$lant anatomy that subsumes $f\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ruits, respectively. Both ontologies are subsumed by the *verum* concept ($\\top$, \u8220\'93everything\u8221\'94) and subsume the *falsum* concept ($\\bot$, \u8220\'93nothing\u8221\'94). The alignment specifies two correspondences, $\\mu_1$ and $\\mu_2$][def:AlignA]}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The culinary ontology $\\ont\{O\}_c$ defines a vegetarian $i$ngredients concept that subsumes, amongst others, $v$egetables. The botanic ontology $\\ont\{O\}_b$ defines a $p$lant anatomy that subsumes, amongst others, $f\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92$ruits. Both ontologies are subsumed by the *verum* concept ($\\top$, \u8220\'93everything\u8221\'94) and subsume the *falsum* concept ($\\bot$, \u8220\'93nothing\u8221\'94). Clearly, the culinary vegetarian $i$ngredients can be considered a subclass of the botanic $p$lant parts, depicted as correspondence $\\mu_1$. The second correspondence, depicted as $\\mu_2$, state that the culinary $v$egetables concept overlap with the botanic $f$ruit concept; this due to the different categorisation of tomatoes, cucumbers and green beans in relation to, e.g., apples (considered $f$ruit to both disciplines) and asparagus (considered $v$egetables to both disciplines). }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Turning our attention to the transcription of data, consider data from the culinary ontology: the vegetarian ingredients on the menu consist of asparagus, carrots and tomatoes. Assume further that the transcription is aware of both ontologies and the two correspondences. Clearly, stating the fact about \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'933 different vegetarian ingredients\u8221\'94 can be transcribed into \u8220\'933 different plant parts\u8221\'94; a one to one replacement of terms suffices since everything that is considered a vegetarian ingredient is, according to $\\mu_1$, considered a part of a plant as well. Now consider the transcription for \u8220\'93the number of vegetables is 3\u8221\'94: simply replacing the culinary term \u8220\'93vegetables\u8221\'94 with the botanic term \u8220\'93fruit\u8221\'94 results in wrongly categorising the asparagus and carrots as botanic fruits. Hence, a valid logic notion on how the two categories relate to each other (by $\\mu_2$) might be a necessary condition, however, it is naive to consider it a sufficient condition to replace the related terms one by one. In fact, the particular relation here, overlap, implies that a one to one transcription is invalid. The only valid transcription of \u8220\'93the number of vegetables is 3\u8221\'94 reads \u8220\'93the number of plant parts is 3\u8221\'94[^1]. To allow for such transcription it is necessary to also take the essence of the correspondence relation in consideration, as well as both ontologies and any other available correspondences, here $\\mu_1$. And although the transcription result might become more generic than its original fact, its semantic validity remains and does not induce incorrect categorisations.     }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- Page definitions -->}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:AlignA]: src\\images\\AlignmentA.png \{#fig:alignment-a width=25%\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [^1]: We here only take concept transcriptions into account and do not consider the adaption of the data value, yet. }}