{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Assume two collaborating software agents, exchanging data about their common interest. Each agent addresses a part of reality, here named the agent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Domain of Application}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (DoA) and denoted as \\concept\{R\}. Collaboration implies that the agents\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 application domains overlap. An application domain is abstracted into a conceptualisation as a set-based }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Domain of Interpretation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (DoI), denoted \\concept\{D\}. In terms of formal semantics, a conceptualisation is represented in tokens which, together, form an ontology, denoted \\ont\{O\}. This ontological representation is built from a unique alphabet $\\Sigma$. An interpretation function $\\intn: \\ont\{O\} \\to \\concept\{D\}$ exists from the ontology to the conceptualisation. We further define a subjectivation function $\\sbjn: \\concept\{D\} \\to \\concept\{R\}$, between the cognitive conceptualisation and the DoA. We assume that each agent decides on its own conceptualisation and its own ontological representation, whereas they share the DoA and interoperate by exchanging facts about that DoA as data. }
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Since each agent decides on its own conceptualisation, two DoI\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s with two unique ontologies emerge: $\\intn: \\ont\{O\} \\to \\concept\{D\}$, and $\\intn\u8217\'92: \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92 \\to \\concept\{D\}\u8217\'92$, where $\\Sigma_\{\\ont\{O\}\} \\cap \\Sigma_\{\\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92\} = \\varnothing$. Similarly, their conceptualisations differ as well: $\\concept\{D\} \\cap \\concept\{D\}\u8217\'92 = \\varnothing$. Since the DoA\u8217\'92s overlap, $\\concept\{R\} \\cap \\concept\{R\}\u8217\'92 \\neq \\varnothing$. In order to exchange data, we assume the specification of (inter-ontological) alignment correspondences, denoted $\\mu = \\tuple\{ c, c\u8217\'92, \\theta_c\}$ that hold between source ($c$) and target ($c\u8217\'92$) ontological concepts, applying correspondence relation $\\theta_c$ such as subset-of, equivalence, superset-of, disjointness and overlap. We make no assumptions on how the alignment correspondences are established but we do assume their semantic validity.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Collaboration between the two software agents thus demands, besides data exchange, for data transcription between both ontologies. We observe that a transcription essentially implements a replacement of a term $c \\in \\ont\{O\}$ to another term $c\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$. From a semantic perspective, however, term replacement demands a semantic equivalence to hold between both terms, which is in clear contrast with the prescribed correspondence relations. In order to resolve such semantic impedance we have investigated the various combinations that can occur in terms of intra-ontological relations (twice, one for each ontology) and the correspondence relations between them, denoted the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 transcription context}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  $\\ctx$. For each transcription context we have specified a transcription result between term $c \\in \\ont\{O\}$ and its semantically valid terminology $c\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \\in \\ont\{O\}\u8217\'92$, or none if no valid result could be obtained. The transcription context identifies the context that applies for $c$ and $c\u8217\'92$ and the particular classes they have a direct intra-ontological relationship $r$ and $r\u8217\'92$ with as depicted in \\cref\{fig:gen-class-transc-models\}(a). We define this transcription context inductively over the intra-ontological relations $r$ and $r\u8217\'92$, as follows:}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{equation\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\ctx_n = \\pair\{ r, \\theta_n, r', \\ctx_\{n-1\} \}    \\label\{eq:transcription-context\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{equation\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- Page definitions -->}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:GenClassTranscModels]: src\\images\\GenClassTranscrModelAAndB.png \{#fig:gen-class-transc-models width=70%\}}}