{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We can think of four possible outcomes of your evaluation of our work, given our conclusion and our approach:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. The conclusion is correct, and our approach is correct. This implies that we cannot apply TRS as basis for a }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 generic semantic transcription engine}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The conclusion is correct, but our approach is wrong. This implies that we cannot apply TRS as basis for a generic semantic transcription engine, but need to correct our proof on that;}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. The conclusion is wrong, but our approach is correct. This implies that we can apply TRS as basis for a generic semantic transcription engine, however we need to correct our reformulation and its outcome;}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. The conclusion is wrong, and our approach is wrong. This implies that we might apply TRS as basis for a generic semantic transcription engine, however we need to fully rework our reformulation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Our questions to you are:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Would you be so kind to evaluate our work on reformulating our inductive model to a cTRS?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. Given the particular outcome of your evaluation, please indicate:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     i. where we went wrong;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     ii. your suggestion for an alternative or corrected approach towards a valid conclusion.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Alternatively, we can consider a more intense collaboration between us in order to get a valid reformulation of our model into a TRS, which naturally would result in acknowledging you as co-author to this publication. }}